 Medical image processing is used in the treatment of diabetic retinopathy. To identify the DR, retinal pictures are assessed. However, manually grading the photos so that the level of DR can be determined takes time and resources. Only when the small blood vessels in the retina are compromised can this issue be seen. This little blood artery will produce blood, and the fluid on the retina will produce characteristics. The types of features that are engaged in this situation as a result of fluid and blood leaks from the blood vessels are thought to be the most crucial aspects to investigate. Pre-processing, segmentation, and classification are the three steps of the diabetic retinopathy detection approaches. 

Images of the retinal fundus' blood vessels serve as a crucial diagnostic tool for conditions including glaucoma, hypertension, and diabetic retinopathy. The eye condition known as diabetic retinopathy (DR) is brought on by long-term diabetes mellitus sickness that damages the retina. Several approaches have been put forth for the identification and diagnosis of DR. Three processes are involved in the diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy: colour fundus picture pre-processing, diagnostic feature extraction, and DR classification. As a result, we can evaluate a person's potential level of diabetes by looking at the thickness of their blood vessels using a variety of imaging algorithms. One of the difficulties with deep learning classification tasks, mainly in the medical field, is a lack of labelled training data. Using a limited Training Dataset, transfer learning aids in deep learning model training. 

Transfer learning can be used to address the issue of Deep Convolutional Networks not having enough training data. On the ImageNet dataset, deep convolutional neural networks have demonstrated remarkable performance; one such example is EfficientNet-b5, which scores top-1 94% accuracy and top-5 87% accuracy according to state-of-the-art standards. Comparatively speaking, it uses less parameters to attain more accuracy and efficiency than other deep convolutional neural networks. In order to tackle the issues with a short training dataset, we may also apply this in transfer learning. We trained this using the Kaggle Aptos blindness detection challenge's training dataset before using it on the challenge's previously unreleased test dataset. It may be used to various deep learning-based image classification issues that are hampered by a lack of labelled training data.
